# **Overview**

In this document we will propose a software architectural design for two features of the *FlightRadar24* application, a real-time flight tracking application that allows a person to visualize flight metrics. 

1. **Live View of Flights**: This feature is a real-time map displaying all active airborne flights within the specified bounds of the user's home screen. 

2. **Time Series Flight Data**: Upon flight selection, a detailed timeseries history of location, altitude, and airspeed, is displayed along with the relevant flight metadata: airline, flight number, and departing/arriving airports, with an additional graph visualizing this data.

The design herein focuses on creating a scalable, low-latency data pipeline that ingests, processes, and serves real-time flight data to external clients via HTTP APIs. The system will handle continuous streams of data for all flights airborne globally, with an update frequency on the order of seconds.

## **Assumptions**

- A stream of live flight data is available for every airborne flight, providing updates every 5 seconds.
- The data for each flight will contain the following structure:
   - flight ID 
   - location (latitude, longitude)
   - altitude
   - airspeed 
   - timestamp 
   - metadata 
      - airline
      - flight number
      - departure airport
      - arrival airports
- This document does not discuss UI details: how maps, graphs, tracks and sprites are rendered is beyond the scope of this document. It is assumed that if a position (lat, lon) of a flight is returned, then that is sufficient to render it on a map. 

## Requirements

- Data should be accessible via an HTTP API within 100s of milliseconds of ingestion for external clients.
- Polling from clients happens every 1–5 seconds for real-time map updates and should be supported by the API. 
- The system must be scalable, fault-tolerant, and capable of handling millions of concurrent clients.

## **Disclaimers**

*Authors Note*: Were this a fully fleshed out design document that I were proposing for actual implementation and peer commentary, I would - in several cases here - present more than one suitable technology as alternatives to fulfill certain features and weigh the pros and cons of each. In this particular case, I chose what I thought thought off-the-cuff to the optimal technologies for each requiremnt. 

Examples show python, but I would actually use Scala